### Recap on assignment 1
* constructor in parent class (even and empty constructor with no args will work)
* in subclasses to avoid repeating code:
  * "push" up into super class - redirect variables into parent constructor
  * now make a call to super() initialise variables there instead
* toString() in parent so can reuse in child classes:
  * place toString() in parent class
  * do not need to call super.toString() in child classes as it is inherited
  * `System.out.println(p1)` implicitly calls `System.out.println(p1.toString())`
* avoid redeclaring variables that are inherited e.g. `String sound` in parent and child classes
* if abstract method in abstract then **EVERY subclass needs to implement it** - i.e. a lot of copying and pasting
* abstract classes:
  * Don't need abstract methods
  * can have abstract class with no abstract methods
  * cant have `new` inside it
  * need subclesses to instantiate object

---

This week don't need packages.   

Quick links > Library > Collections > electronic > electronic resources > 'Head First Design Patterns'

link: https://academic.safaribooksonline.com/book/software-engineering-and-development/patterns/0596007124/head-first-design-patterns/index_html#X2ludGVybmFsX0h0bWxWaWV3P3htbGlkPTA1OTYwMDcxMjQlMkZidXRfc29tZXRoaW5nX3dlbnRfaG9ycmlibHlfd3JvbmdoZWxsaXBfaHRtbCZxdWVyeT0=  

**topic for today = inheritance is not always good**

---
a.   

`this` refers to the object currently being created

```java
class Runner
{
	public static void main(String[] args)
	{
		Duck[] ducks = new Duck[]{ new RedHeadDuck() };
		System.out.println();
		
	}
	
}

abstract class Duck {
	 
	Duck() {
		// print obj ref of current obj being created
		// this is important here - it will refer to the subclass
		// e.g. ReadHead@001
		System.out.println("Creating Object: "+this);
	}
}

class RedHeadDuck extends Duck {
 
	//implements the abstract method from Duck
	void display() {
		System.out.println("RedHeadDuck.display()");
	}
}
```
b.  
**Rubber ducks shouldn't be able to fly** - override the inherited method `fly()`     

`;` **is a valid line of code!**

```java
 class RubberDuck extends Duck {
 
	// override fly() and implement it to do nothing
	void fly(){
		;	//explicitly programmed to do nothing
	}
	
	void display() {
		System.out.println("RubberDuck.display()");
	}
}

```

still a problem with overriding - expecting specific behaviours i.e. shouldn't be able to call `fly()` on RubberDuck at all.


---

duck type reference = interface to redheadduck only has access to duck
redheadduck type reference = interface to redheadduck has access to duck

interfaces:

* can't put code into interface
* interface written instead of class
* all its methods are abstract
* works same as abstract class
* key word `implement`
* implementation **needs** to be `public`

**client programmer:**   
Programmer that writes code (could be in the main method), accessing other classes, methods etc..

**interface:**
An interface is a reference type in Java. It is similar to class. It is a collection of abstract methods. A class implements an interface, thereby inheriting the abstract methods of the interface.  

Acts like an abstract class, but children need to use keyword `implements` instead of `extends`. Its implementation needs to be public, and can contain any number of methods. An interface contains behaviors that a class implements.  

e.g. redheadduck type reference = interface to redheadduck has access to class duck contents.  

**DRY:**   
"Don't repeat yourself!" == "Don't write the same code repeatedly". If there is a lot of repeated code/copying and pasting of code then it doesn't adhere to the DRY principle.    

**class explosion:**     
If there are n attributes in the type system, there are 2n possible combinations that you might have to support. For example, not all ducks can quack, fly and swim. There will be different combinations of these behaviours, and it this problem will become more complex as variables are introduced.  




